---
layout: post
title: "Akshay Narayan: Bertha: A Runtime-Reconfigurable Network Stack"
date: 2021-11-05
categories: sysread
---

### Abstract

As the network has evolved to include more functionality, applications
have increasingly adopted the use of communication libraries both to
augment and to replace the traditional network stack and API. This is
because the traditional stack was designed for common but fixed
functionality, whereas applications today demand rich features,
including encryption, serialization, and new communication patterns.
Unfortunately, the ecosystem of communication libraries is ad-hoc and
thus limits libraries' mutual composability and portability outside of
specific deployment environments.
In this talk, we argue that to resolve these shortcomings, we need an
extensible and runtime-reconfigurable network stack. We propose a
design for such a stack, and prototype our design in a system named
Bertha. We demonstrate the generality and benefit of our design using
three application case-studies.

### Bio

Akshay Narayan is a PhD student at MIT advised by Hari Balakrishnan
and Mohammad Alizadeh. His research interests are in computer systems
and networking. Specifically, he works on ways for applications to
evolve alongside modern networks as they become increasingly dynamic.
He has received the Best Artifact award from Eurosys, the Best Student
Paper award from SIGCOMM, the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, and
the Jacobs Presidential Fellowship. More at https://akshayn.xyz
